ROADMAP.md, before:

# ROADMAP

## Doing now

## For the MVP

- Maybe retool the interface for `(sc *SMTPClient) Send(body string) error` in the `email` package. `Send()` both prepares an email and sends it using `dialer.DialAndSend(m)`. We can't--and don't need to--test `DialAndSend()`. Is there a way to use an interface that can allow for a test implementation of `DialAndSend()`?

- Grab HTML from user-selected sites at scheduled intervals. Write a new package for this. It will probably involve taking a raw `Config` struct and validating it into an internal config object, similar to the way `linksrc` works but tailored to grabbing HTML. Note that if we go this route, we'll need to extract `Config` from `linksrc`. Maybe add `Config` validation in a way that doesn't transform the `Config` into a struct with parsing-specific members (i.e., from the `cascadia` library etc)?

- Ensure that interfaces between packages are as small as possible

- Get to full unit test coverage

- Write e2e tests (also include profiles, which you can create using flags on the `go test` command). Do this while refining the interfaces between packages as well as the glue code in `main.go`.

- Find/remove any bottlenecks

- Add log-based observability

- Update the README to describe the architecture of the application (what each package does and how they work together).

- Make sure there's an adequate `doc.go` for every package.

- **Releasing:** Change the module name to `www.github.com/ptgott/divnews`, including in all imports. Currently it's set to `divnews`.

Commit message:

Start adding a client for polling publication sites
- Include validation for the client config

I added this so we can have a rough-and-ready prototype an test
out package interfaces as soon as possible, so all the client
does is hit an endpoint and return the response body. We'll need
to add error handling, retries, jitter, etc.

ROADMAP.md, after:

# ROADMAP

## Doing now

## For the MVP

- Maybe retool the interface for `(sc *SMTPClient) Send(body string) error` in the `email` package. `Send()` both prepares an email and sends it using `dialer.DialAndSend(m)`. We can't--and don't need to--test `DialAndSend()`. Is there a way to use an interface that can allow for a test implementation of `DialAndSend()`?

- Handle more complex client situations in `poller.Poll()`, such as retries and non-2xx responses. (Currently this has no defensive measures at all.)

- Add a message to the newsletter email when a link source's structure has changed and causes the provided selectors to return zero results.

- Ensure that interfaces between packages are as small as possible

- Research some common web scraping pitfalls and ensure that this application avoids them.

- Get to full unit test coverage

- Write e2e tests (also include profiles, which you can create using flags on the `go test` command). Do this while refining the interfaces between packages as well as the glue code in `main.go`.

- Find/remove any bottlenecks

- Add log-based observability

- Update the README to describe the architecture of the application (what each package does and how they work together).

- Make sure there's an adequate `doc.go` for every package.

- **Releasing:** Change the module name to `www.github.com/ptgott/divnews`, including in all imports. Currently it's set to `divnews`.
